---
title: CS2420
layout: class
---

# Data Structures and Algorithms

Completed: Spring 2022\
Grade: B+

## Course Description

This course provides an introduction to the problem of engineering computational
efficiency into programs. Students will learn about classical algorithms
(including sorting, searching, and graph traversal), data structures (including
stacks, queues, linked lists, trees, hash tables, and graphs), and analysis of
program space and time requirements. Students will complete extensive
programming exercises that require the application of elementary techniques from
software engineering.

## Reflection

The course was the second programming course I took after CS1420. It built upon
my Java fundamentals and began to teach me the basics of data structures. I
wrote more code line-for-line in this course than any course I have taken to
date (updated Spring 2024). The class had us implement various data structures
and time their basic operations to ensure our correctness. This class was also
the first time that I had been exposed to the idea of Big-O notation and
time/space complexity in general. It also began a journey into the idea of
algorithms and had us implement various algorithms to traverse our data
strutures. However, most of the algorithms learned in this class were used for
sorting and CS4150 would be the course where I took a deep dive into algos as a
whole. This class also required pair programming for all asignments and taught
me the importance of a second pair of eyes when writing code. It truley is an
invaliable resource to have a fresh persepective when you have been staring at
the same code for hours on end searching for the bug that is causing your entire
implementation to operate incorrectly.
