# Parallel Programming

Completed: Fall 2024 Grade: A

## Course Description

This course is a comprehensive exploration of parallel programming paradigms,
examining core concepts, focusing on subset of widely available contemporary
parallel programming models, and providing context with a small set of parallel
algorithms. In the last few years, this area has been the subject of significant
interest due to a number of factors. The advent of multi-core microprocessors
has made parallel computing available to the masses. At the high end, major
vendors of large-scale parallel systems, including IBM, Cray, and Sun, have
recently introduced new parallel programming languages designed for applications
that exploit tens of thousands of processors. Embedded devices can also be
through of a small multiprocessors. The convergence of these distinct markets
offers an opportunity to finally provide application programmers with a
productive way to express parallel computation. The course is structured a
lectures, homework, programming assignments and a final project. Students will
perform four programming projects to express algorithms using selected parallel
programming models and measure their performance. The final project will consist
of teams of 2-3 students who will implement codes by combining multiple
programming models. Recommended experience in C programming or equivalent.

## Reflection

This course got off to a slow start. The first unit was almost entirley a repeat
of caching calculations from CS4400 - Computer Systems. However, once that was
out of the way the actual parallel programming, despite being very math heavy,
was enjoyable and interesting. Being able to build real application that split
workload among different threads/systems and see the performance improvements
with real benchmarks was rewarding.
