---
title: CS5530
layout: class
---

# Database Systems

Completed: Spring 2023\
Grade:B

## Course Description

Representing information about real world enterprises using important data
models including the entity-relationship, relational, and object-oriented
approaches. Database design criteria, including normalization and integrity
constraints. Implementation techniques using commercial database management
system software and database connector APIs. Selected advanced topics such as
query and transaction processing and index data structures.

## Reflection

At this point in my degree my course schedule open up to allow me to take
whatever elective I wanted. My immediate though was that databases seemed to be
useful and everywhere around me. I did not let the 5000 level course number
scare me and jumped in head first! As my grade shows I struggled more in this
class that any class up until this point. It was not the material that I
struggled with but the constant deadlines forcing me to code faster and harder
than I ever had.

This course started out slow with introducing important ideas of database
design. I mean it is important to design the database before you implement it
after all. After several weeks of studying ER diagrams and the basics of
relational databases we hopped straight into putting that information to
practice. We started a partner project that took us through all the stages of
database managment. We designed a database and drew up the ER diagram, we
constructed the tables in mySQL, and built ourselves an API to integrate with a
LMS provided by the instructional staff. By the end of the course we had a fully
working canvas look-a-like.
